[SWOOSH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I'm William Henry, and
this is "Ascension Keepers."
As we have seen, the veil
of the Temple of Solomon
was thought of as a portal
between heaven and earth.
Passing through this
veil transformed a human
into a radiant angel,
a luminous being.
The Temple priestesses
who wove that veil,
when the Temple was rebuilt
at the time of Jesus,
were known as the Marys.
My research reveals that these
highly mysterious females
not only wove the starry veil
separating the holy place
from the most holy place
of Solomon's Temple,
but they also were
specially trained
as vessels to give birth
to the high celestial
being the Essenes
were expecting.
One of these Temple
priestesses is known to history
as the Virgin Mary
or Mary the Mother.
Later, we will explore the
extraordinary Renaissance
story of the arrival of the star
child, the high celestial being
the Essenes were
awaiting, as well as
the apparitions of
this Mary in which she
appears as a luminous being.
We should not be
surprised that Mary
transformed into a light being.
She was, after all, the
first Christian to ascend.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
According to the
Dead Sea Scrolls,
these Essenes
alienated themselves
from the rest of society
at their monasteries
at Mount Carmel and Qumran and
elsewhere to perfect themselves
in order to prepare and
make way for this visitation
of a high celestial
being and to lead
a revolution in human evolution
by transforming themselves
into angels and the Earth into
a planet of righteousness.
The Essene Community Rule
tells us this high heavenly
being would reveal the
mysteries of eternal
being concealed from humankind.
And at that time,
the righteous will
be rewarded with
healing, great peace,
and a long life, and
fruitfulness, together
with every everlasting
blessing, an eternal joy
in life without end, a crown of
glory, and a garment of majesty
in unending light.
In the Dead Sea
Scrolls, the Essenes
said this star being would lead
a revolt against the Children
of Darkness, who they
said were incarnate
in Rome and symbolic
of the material world
and would deliver the
righteous children of the light
from the evil powers
of earthly despots.
The arrival of this star
being fulfills the prophecy
of the star coming out of
Jacob in the book of Numbers
and would result in a
transformation of humanity.
The angels who were
living with the Essenes
were assisting in the
fulfillment of this prophecy.
And the Essenes' mission
crossed over generations
and so presumably
did the assistance
of the angels the Essenes
claimed they were living with.
Many, of course,
know that angels
were involved in the
conception and birth of Jesus.
The Annunciation, as
it's known, is the moment
when the archangel Gabriel,
one of the watcher angels,
announces to Mary that she
will bear the Christ child.
And this is exactly what we
see in the Annunciation scenes
from Christian art.
One of the elements of
theology that was debated
was the precise way in which
Mary actually became pregnant.
In this "Annunciation" by
Filippo Lippi in the National
Gallery in London, Mary
is in the Holy of Holies
of the Temple of Solomon.
Gabriel appears.
In annunciation
paintings such as this,
we see Gabriel
with Peacock wings.
Here, the hand of God appears
at the top center of the image.
God's hand emerges from a
vortex that rains golden manna,
the dew of Resurrection,
also referred to as the star
food of the angels, while
the Dove of the Holy Spirit
emerges from the corkscrewing
vortex, close to Mary's knees
and anointing Mary with the
cosmic energy of the Milky Way.
There is a gap in Mary's
dress in front of her stomach
from which small
golden rays project.
My research reveals that
Mary became pregnant
through the stomach.
It is significant that the
Annunciation celebrates
Mary's transformation into
the Theotokos, the god
bearer or Christ bearer.
In Gnostic tradition,
it represents
her awakening, or
her enlightenment,
and her transformation
into a vessel
or actually the new Ark of the
Covenant, as she was called,
capable of housing
this cosmic being.
In the traditional or
orthodox story of Mary,
her conception of
Jesus is passive.
In the Essene and Gnostic
version, her role is active.
She was trained to
conceive the Christ
child, this mysterious cosmic
being the Essenes were calling
in.
We can be assured
from this that Mary
was well-prepared to carry
this pure light being
sent from the cosmos.
In fact, we know
that the Essenes were
obsessed with ritual purity.
The reason for the Essenes'
strict insistence on purity
is that they claimed they
were living with angels
and would be joining them
in the celestial realms.
These angels are portrayed as
super-high vibrational beings.
They don't eat meat.
They don't drink
alcohol or have sex.
So neither did the Essenes.
And their rules were
strictly enforced.
Men and women seeking
to join the Essenes
had to go through three years
of probationary training
and could not eat or drink
with the other members
until their purity was assured.
This was for
everyone's protection.
One of the ritual points
emphasized by the Essenes,
as noted in the Dead Sea Scroll
known as the Halachic Letter,
is the contamination
of pure water
by pouring it into
an impure vessel.
And the vessel we're
speaking of, of course,
is the human body.
The Essenes believed that
even if the vessel containing
the water was pure and even
if the water itself was pure,
if it was poured
into an impure vessel
the water would not
only become impure,
but the vessel
containing the pure water
would itself become impure.
In other words, the
impurity, they believed,
would transfer up
the flow of water
into the pitcher, contaminating
everything in its path.
In some paintings like "The
Annunciation" by Barthel Bruyn,
archangel Gabriel
conducts the Holy Spirit
into the ear of Mary
with the caduceus wand.
This is important as, in
mythology, the caduceus wand
is the alchemical
talisman, or device, that
enables messenger beings
to travel back and forth
from the realm of the gods.
The caduceus is the symbol
of the transformation,
or perfection, of
the star walkers
into pure beings of light, and I
equate it with the Resurrection
stick that we've seen with
the rainbow light body beings.
Actually, Jesus is not the first
virgin or angel-assisted birth
upheld by the Essenes.
The first was recorded
by Melchizedek.
The Second Book of
Enoch of the Essenes
contains a section called
Exaltation of Melchizedek,
which says that
Melchizedek was born
of a virgin named Sopanim, the
wife of Nir, a brother of Noah.
This is important because
Jesus was referred
to by the Essenes
as a priest forever
after the order of Melchizedek.
40 days later,
Melchizedek was taken
by the archangel Gabriel--
or Michael, in
some manuscripts--
to the Garden of Eden and was
thus preserved from the deluge
without having to
be in Noah's Ark.
In fact, the Gnostics told of
the intervention of the angels
in the birth of not only Jesus
and Melchizedek, but also
of the Virgin Mary.
In traditional Catholicism,
her parents, Joachim and Anne,
were childless.
But the Gnostic
Protoevangelium of James
tells the story of the
archangel Gabriel appearing
to Anne, the mother of Mary.
Suddenly, an angel of the Lord
stood in front of her saying,
"Anne!
Anne!
The Lord God has
heard your prayer.
You will conceive
and give birth,
and your child will be spoken
of everywhere people live."
In my view, Gabriel's
appearance to Anne
shows that genetic
alteration was generational.
It also tells us
that Mary was far
from a simple peasant
girl as portrayed
in Orthodox Christianity.
No, she was a highly
trained Essene initiate
on the path of perfection.
So who exactly is
this iconic figure
who has attained such
exalted titles, as well
as a unique heavenly position?
From early days, Mary was known
as Blessed Virgin, Holy Mother,
Mother of God, Bride of
Christ, Bride of the Spirit,
and Queen of Heaven.
Where did she come from, and
how did she progress from human
to near-divine?
In his book, "The
Virgin Goddess--
Studies in the Pagan and
Christian Roots of Mariology,"
scholar Stephen Benko traces the
development of the Cult of Mary
from Greek and Roman mythology
through to recent times.
Benko traces Mary's roots to the
Pagan, pre-Christian, heavenly
Queens of Greece, Rome, and
the wider Mediterranean.
In fact, Queen of
Heaven was a title
given to a number of ancient
sky goddesses worshipped
throughout the ancient
Mediterranean and Near
East during ancient
times, including
by the ancient Israelites.
Goddesses known to have been
referred to by this title
include Inanna, Isis,
Astarte, Asherah, Athena,
the Greek goddess
of virgin birth.
Christianity, Benko notes,
did not add a new element
to religion when it introduced
into its theology such concepts
as Virgin and mother.
Rather, it sharpened
and refined images
that already existed in numerous
forms in Pagan mythology.
Going back to the Assyrian and
Babylonian stories of the gods,
we find relationships
between gods and goddesses
resulting in other
gods and goddesses.
One such story is that
of Enki and Damkina,
who were assisted
by Abzu giving birth
to the god Marduk, the sun god.
We find the same concept
in the story of Gabriel,
an angel assisting Mary.
Gabriel is a celestial
being assisting
another high celestial
being, Mary, in conception.
So it's no coincidence
that Mary was also
identified as the new Eve,
as early as the latter half
of the second century, and that
Christ was called the new Adam.
These titles, the new
Eve and the new Adam,
tell us that these
figures were either
new models of humans, which
is what the Essenes intended,
or that they shared something
in common with these earlier
figures.
The Essenes believed that
Adam and Eve were angels
with light bodies and that
we can, and must, return
to our original
state of perfection,
when we would be made new
again like Mary and Christ.
This, once again, points us in
the direction of the Essenes
mission to transform humanity
from its earthly flesh
to its original celestial
flesh and to become new beings.
The Virgin Mary-- her
father, Joseph, died shortly
after her birth in about 17 BC.
Her mother, Anne, also died
at about the same time,
both of them having
been executed by Herod.
Mary was then raised in
the Temple of Solomon.
In fact, according to the
second century Protoevangelium
of James, Mary was consecrated
as a Temple virgin,
or priestess, at
the age of three
and lived in the Temple
precincts till the age of 14,
when she was married
to St. Joseph.
This order or school of
Temple virgins in Jerusalem
formed an altar guild that
fulfilled the necessary tasks
of the Temple of Solomon.
This included
sewing and creating
the vestments of
the high priest,
weaving the veil of the
Temple, and, most importantly,
liturgical prayer.
There are three
scriptural accounts
that are used by Catholics
to demonstrate that there
were special women
who ministered
at the Temple of
Solomon complex.
Exodus 38:8 mentions
women who watch
at the door of the
Tabernacle, the holy place.
The second is in first Samuel.
Now Eli was very
old, and he heard all
that his sons did to
all Israel and how
they lay with the
women that waited
at the door of the Tabernacle.
In both of the verses
above, the Hebrew verb
for watch and
waited is the same.
They are watching and
waiting at the door
of the Temple of Solomon--
actually the door to
the Holy of Holies.
The third reference to
these liturgical females
is in Second Maccabees.
"And the virgins also
that were shut up
came forth, some to
the High Priest Onias,
and some to the walls,
and others looked out
of the windows.
And all holding up their
hands towards heaven,
made supplication.
Here are the virgins
that are shut up.
In the Greek, it is the shut
up ones of the virgins."
In this passage, the
Holy Spirit refers
not to all the
virgins of Jerusalem,
but to a special
set of virgins--
that is, those virgins who had
the privilege and the right
to be in the presence of the
high priest and to address him.
There is further testimony
of Temple virgins
in the Traditions of the Jews.
In the Mishnah, it is
recorded that there
were 82 consecrated virgins who
wove the veil of the Temple.
Quote, "The veil of the Temple
was a palm-length in width.
It was woven with
72 smooth stitches,
each made up 24 threads.
The length was of 40 cubits
and the width of 20 cubits.
82 virgins wove it.
Two veils were made each
year, and 300 priests
were needed to carry
it to the pool."
That's very exact.
To say there's 300 priests that
are used to carry this veil,
that's an extraordinary
number and points
to the incredible
mystery of this veil.
We find another
reference to the women
who made the veils for the
Temple and baked the shoe bread
and prepared the incense--
this according to the
Babylonian Talmud.
This shoe bread is
extremely mysterious,
as it's also known as manna
star food, white powder
gold, or ormus to some.
Originally, it was made by
Bezalel, the Goldsmith who
made the Ark of the Covenant.
And it is believed by some
that this manna, or star food,
was a highly energetic substance
that feeds the light body.
All of these references tell us
that the virgins of the temple,
including Mary, were special
and highly trained priestesses.
Taken literally,
they tell us they
were weavers of
cosmic energies that
could produce a veil or conduit
linking heaven and earth.
And from this same
material, they
wove the bodies of
light, or robes of light,
like the angels.
Rabbinic Jewish
sources also record
how, when the Romans
sacked Jerusalem in AD 70,
the Temple virgins
leapt into the flames
so as not to be abducted
by the heathen soldiers.
Jesus mysteriously
parted this veil
that they had woven
during the crucifixion.
Says Matthew, "And behold,
the veil of the Temple
was rent in twain from
the top to the bottom,
and the earth did quake,
and the rocks rent."
The Gospel of Matthew
further relates
that immediately
after the crucifixion,
the earth shook and an angel
of the Lord, a Watcher,
came down out of heaven whose
appearance was like lightning--
plasma?
And his clothing
was white as snow.
There was also darkness
and an eclipse.
The star-covered veil
in Solomon's temple
was torn in two and many
people rose from the dead
and walked about in Jerusalem
and were seen by many people
there.
The importance of
the veil is that it
marked the division
between earth and heaven
and hid the throne and its
meaning from mortal eyes.
Knowledge of these
secrets meant one
was capable of manipulating the
elements or forces of creation,
and this is why
their secrets were
withheld from ordinary
humans who might misuse them.
But Mary knew these secrets.
Central to my thesis is Dr.
Margaret Barker's proposal
that this veil that
Mary wove was viewed
as a boundary between
heaven and earth,
the visible and the
invisible world, between time
and eternity.
And parting this wall
of light took one
beyond the material world and
into the immaterial world.
The mysteries of this veil
were central to the Essenes.
And as we have noted,
they were called the Raz.
Philo says that the veil
separated the changeable parts
of the world from the
heavenly region, which
is without transient
events and is unchanging.
And the people who pass through
this veil, notes Dr. Barker,
were the mediators, divine and
human, clad in the priestly
garments that match
the rainbow light body,
and who walked
between the worlds
in order to bring blessings
and the presence of God
to their people.
We can easily tie this veil
into the rainbow light body.
It is made of the same
material as the clothing
of the high priest.
And the high priest's
clothing, we have seen,
matches the symbolism of
the rainbow light body.
These are the ultimate
secrets that the Virgin
Mary would have been privy to.
The Essenes sought this bodily
and spiritual perfection
of the light body in
order to cross over
this veil, or boundary, and
commune with the angelic beings
and to stand united with
the angels before God
and, as the scrolls say, to
live in a state of perfect light
for all eternity.
So this takes us to the
root of the knowledge
the priestesses, including
Mary, would have possessed,
and it precisely matches the
aims and goals of the Essenes.
Instead, we're
talking about Mary
as an advanced
adept or avatar who
incarnated on earth
to participate
in a profound cosmic mission.
As shown at Lourdes
in southern France,
she is more properly thought
of as the leader of a group
of illumed initiates and Magi.
This is one of my favorite
depictions of Mary.
One reason is because with
the flame of illumination
coming from the top of
her head, she highly
resembles the depictions of
Kuan Yin, goddess of compassion.
Mary and Kuan Yin are a
perfect fit for one another.
Mary's primary vision
was to bring to earth
a star child whose incarnation
would fulfill the Essenes' aim
to bring a high celestial
being to earth in order
to transform the human race.
Incarnation, the
appearance of this being,
literally means "embodied in
flesh or taking on flesh."
It refers to the conception
and birth of a sentient being
who is the material
manifestation
of an entity, a
god, or force whose
original nature is immaterial.
In its religious context,
the word incarnation
is used to mean the
descent from heaven
of a god, deity, or divine
being in human form on earth.
And that was Mary's
role, was to incarnate,
to manifest into flesh,
this high celestial being.
The New Testament's
Book of Revelation
describes the Woman
of the Apocalypse
who would bring
forth this child.
Then God's Temple in
heaven was opened, it says,
and the Ark of his Covenant
was seen within his temple.
And there were flashes
of lightning, voices,
peals of thunder, an
earthquake, and heavy hail.
And there appeared a
great wonder in heaven--
a woman, Mary, clothed with the
sun and the moon under her feet
and upon her head a
crown of 12 stars.
She is a plasma being
with a plasma crown.
She is pregnant and about
to give birth to a son,
Jesus, who will fulfill
the Essene mission
and will rule, the Book
of Revelation says,
with the rod of iron.
And her child was caught up
unto God and to his throne.
The Woman of the
Apocalypse, they call Mary.
Remember, the word apocalypse,
used to describe Mary,
comes from the
Greek apokalypsis,
meaning an uncovering,
a lifting of the veil,
or the disclosure of
something hidden--
a surprise.
To be veiled means to weave.
And there is that concept
appearing, once again,
of weaving, the role
of the divine feminine.
And we know that Mary
herself was a weaver.
According to esteemed Yale
divinity scholar John J.
Collins--
writing in his book, "The
Apocalyptic Imagination,
An Introduction to Jewish
Apocalyptic Literature"--
apocalypse is a genre
of revelatory literature
with a narrative
framework in which
a revelation is mediated
by an other-worldly
being to a human recipient.
Its purpose is to disclose
a transcendent reality which
is both temporal, in so far
as an eschatological salvation
or an end-time scenario, and
spatial, he says, in so far
as it involves another
supernatural world.
One of the most distinctive
features of the apocalyptic
literature-- says Christopher
Roland in his book,
"The Open Heaven, A Study
of Apocalyptic and Judaism
in Early Christianity"--
is the conviction
that the seer--
in this case, Mary--
could pierce the vault
of heaven and look
upon the glorious world
of God and His angels.
This is expressed by the term
"the heavens opened," as,
for example, during
the ascension of Jesus
or the belief that
a door opened.
As the Woman of the
Apocalypse, Mary, once again,
would have known that
the high celestial being,
the star child was on his way.
She would have pierced
the veil, looked
into the celestial
realms, and known
this being was soon to arrive.
She would have seen
beyond the veil.
So while many seek
the star of the Magi
in traditional
Christian teaching,
Gnostic writers believe that
the Magi, who sought the Christ
child, were actually seeking
not a star, but a star child.
This perfectly aligns
with the Essenes' belief
that they were calling in
a high celestial being.
This is the premise of
"Revelation of the Magi,"
an extraordinary eighth century
Gnostic manuscript resurrected
from the Vatican archives by
Dr. Brent Landau, who provided
a first ever English translation
and critical analysis
of this remarkable text--
and one that is largely unknown.
This book tells the familiar
story of the three kings,
or Magi, who follow a star
in search of the Christ child
but from a completely
different perspective.
It's from the Essene
or Gnostic perspective.
And in this story, the star
child, the celestial being,
appears in the sky,
descends from the heavens--
which open like a
great star gate--
and enters a cave, inviting
the Magi to come inside.
In the cave, a gate opens.
And the star takes the form of
a small and humble human being
and tells the Magi
that such a form
is necessary for the
inhabitants of the world
to see the son of the
Father, indicating
that this star child is none
other than Christ himself.
Christ then tells
the Magi that he
has been sent from the
Father for their salvation
of all humanity and
instructs the Magi to follow
the star to Bethlehem to
see his birth in human form.
The star upon which
he rode is also
described in the
Protoevangelium of James
as being "very great and
so bright in the skies
that it dimmed all
the other stars
so that they appeared not."
It's clear that the
"Revelation of the Magi"
is describing the arrival
of the high celestial
being the Essenes were awaiting
and that this being could take
on human flesh and blood
form, but could also
transform or morph back into
its original angelic light body.
Psalm 110 describes
this child's birth
and how he becomes a priest
forever like Melchizedek.
With this birth, Mary's job
would have only just begun.
However, it is clear from
what we have discussed
that she would have
been instructed
in the secrets of
the veil, or the Raz,
as the Essenes called
it and much, much more.
And undoubtedly, she would have
initiated or trained her child
in these mysteries.
What I have just
presented about Mary
is a radical departure
from traditional Christian
understanding of Mary.
However, it is perfectly
consistent with what
the Essenes were
teaching and is based
on literary and
artistic traditions that
go back centuries.
As always, it's our job
to do our own research
to get the truths of
the ancient world.
And in my humble
opinion, those truths
are far more incredible
than most realize.
What we can take away
from this investigation
is that Mary was a truly special
adept or even an avatar--
part about long chain or
line of such priestesses
who have been specially
trained through the ages
in order to infuse the
human genome with something
new, something special,
something cosmic.
And we can see how the Essenes
would have gladly awaited
the arrival of this
being, but they
would have needed the
priestesses like Mary to assist
in the revelation
of this being--
to assist by willingly
transforming their body,
by becoming purer than
the ordinary person.
As we have seen, the
purity was a prerequisite
because the Essenes
believed that they
were living with angels.
And we saw that
incredible testimony
that the Essenes believed
that purity could even
go back upstream.
That is an incredible concept.
By looking at Mary
from this perspective,
we gain not only a new light
on the incarnation of Christ,
but also a new light on
the incredible teachings
that Mary must have
embodied and what
she would have passed along.
And as men and women, we
can admire those teachings,
but we ourselves can
also participate in them.
We participate by
learning her true story
and learning of our
cosmic connections.
[MUSIC PLAYING]